so paying for graduate school or the cost of graduate school, I should
say, is going to depend a little bit on the program that you go thio
or the type of program. So if you're going to a master's program,
generally you're going to have to pay tuition and you know, fees and
books and things like that. Um, sometimes there are positions that
are offered in master's programs for master's students in that program.
So being an assistant to a professor, for instance, or working in
a computer lab, you know, I would check with the department itself
and see what graduate student positions are available to help you offset
the cost of getting your degree, Um, for a PhD program. Oftentimes
it depends on the type of program that you go to So in psychology,
if you're going to go into a clinical psychology PhD program, oftentimes
you're like a professional psychology PhD program. Oftentimes
you are gonna have to pay for that out of your own pocket. It's kind
of like medical school andan that case, you know, you could probably
get grants or loans. Maybe, um, I wouldn't count on working sometimes
with some of these programs, they're kind of built for the working
professional. Um, but a lot of them, you really need to be a full
time student and not just a regular, full time student, but a full
time student in a PhD program, which is kind of like that's a lot
of hours. It's not gonna leave you much time. Thio hold another job
outside of being a student. So probably you're going to be looking
at grants or loans at that point. Um, however, if you go into a research
based PhD, oftentimes those programs are actually gonna pay you
to be a student, because the work the work you're doing in terms of
research is actually valuable work. Um, And so if you're working in
someone's lab and doing research for them, they will pay you. You will
get paid, um, either by them specifically by whoever you know lab
you're working in or more likely through the department that that
lab is located in, um and oftentimes also like tuition and fees might
be waived. Um, eso So depending on the kind of graduate degree you're
looking for, you may find that you don't have to pay for it or at
least not pay for all of it s so it's definitely something that you
should look into.